Tue 06 Sep 2016 08:37:00 AM EDT

## Search archival HATNet and HATSouth data for M dwarfs transited by planets or stars.

Will require first removing stellar variability (can be ~10-100mmag, correlated over
timescales of hours)

A big component: knowing which stars are M dwarfs.
  * Gaia DR1 comes out September 15
  * TESS' M dwarf catalog is a thing I can access
  * Gaidos CONCH-SHELL (?)

Questions: by “stellar variability”, this presumably means more than astrophysical stellar flicker 
(that is, brightness variations from surface granulation) – it also includes red noise from the 
atmosphere? (keep in mind, I've been thinking about TESS & Kepler mostly from the past year). This 
would presumably be a good way to get up to date with VARTOOLS & more specifically the algorithms 
it uses to search for transits in light curves. There might also be a case for non-periodic transit 
searches (e.g. QATS, which does BLS but over variable times between transits, and thus at greater 
computational cost). There might similarly be a case for planets in EB systems; a transit of an M 
dwarf by a CBP in an EB, for instance, would be a big deal. So – overall a highly relevant project 
to the types of discovery tools that I'm interested in, and a great way to learn about many of them 
with a useful application in mind. It's not clear whether we would find anything – but if we do this 
right we could at least get lower bounds for what size transiting planets at what periods we could 
have detected about all the HATN/HATS observed cool dwarfs. I don't know how common it is to publish 
such “lower bounds” results, but they're useful for people who do planetary population statistics. 
The main challenge of this project would be in the analysis – it'd primarily be a means for me to 
learn best-practices for pixel→light curve→ detrending → transit search → (non)detection.

Waqas mentioned:
* "detrended raw light curves w/ TFA and EPD algorithms".
What are these?

TFA: trend filtering algorithm (Kovas+ 2005)
Leverages the fact that wide field surveys generate multiple light curves that are
affected by similar systematics.

Methods used for kepler:
Regularized regression, GP regression, PCA, unsupervised learning methods.

EPD: external parameter decorrelation (Bakos+ 2007).
Idea is to include external parameters that are correlated with your noise when
detrending. 
