Sat 04 Feb 2017 09:20:33 AM EST

How is this done for different cases?

DETRENDING: 

For Kepler data, using "raw" or "PA" photometry.
(Not Presearch Data Donditioning, PDC, detrended data, since it's not robust
against long-duration events, cf. Fanelli et al. (2011)).

For detached EBs, citing the suppl info Sec 6 of Welsh+ (2012):
""
Detrending is complicated by the presence of eclipses in the light
curve which must be removed before detrending can be done. 
The basic process for this is the data is fit to a Legendre polynomial of order k, 
where k is  typically very high (60-200). Then sigmaclipping is done so any points 
3σ above  or below the fit are discarded. Then the fit is recalculated, and again 
sigma-clipped. This is repeated until all eclipses or other discontinuities, 
such as those caused by cosmic rays, are removed, allowing the final fit to be 
subtracted from the original data, providing a detrended light curve.
""

Alt approach:
Armstrong (2014) whitening procedure:
""
Phase fold the LC at the binary period.
Then bin the phased curve into equal width bins, and compute the median of each
bin.
If a given bin has significantly higher variance than the average, subdivide it
further into higher resolution bins.
Then compute the medians of those higher resolution bins.
Finally, subtract the medians of each bin from every point in a given bin (over
this effectively adaptive grid).

Issue: occasionally leave residual binary signals around regions of sharp
variation, notably ingress/egress points for detached EB eclipses. To lessen
the effect, after subtraction check each curve for periodic binary remantns and
manually remove them (i.e. throw away that data).
""


MEASURING ECLIPSE TIMES:
""
The times of mideclipse for all primary and secondary events in Kepler-34 and
Kepler-35 were measured in a manner similar to that described in ref. 46. 
Briefly, the times of primary eclipse and the times of secondary eclipse are 
measured separately for each source. Given an initial linear ephemeris and an 
estimate of the eclipse width, the data around the eclipses were isolated, and
locally detrended with a cubic polynomial (the eclipses were masked out of the
fit). The detrended data were then folded on the linear ephemeris, and a cubic 
Hermite spline fit was used to make an eclipse template. 
The template was then iteratively correlated with each eclipse to produce a
measurement of the eclipse time. This time was then corrected to account for
the Long Cadence 29.4244 minute bin size, which otherwise could induce an 
alias periodicity.
""

Note that this technique does not work for contact binaries:
""
We investigate these two subclasses of eclipsing binaries because the eclipse 
timing technique outlined in Supplementary Section 8 does not work well if 
the first and fourth contact points (start of ingress and end of egress) are 
not well defined. We also chose to omit systems with P < 0.9 days, as these in 
general also suffer from eclipse timing measurement difficulties owing to
out-of-eclipse variations due to tidal distortions and reflection effects. 
Of the systems classified as detached or semi-detached with P > 0.9 days, a 
total of 1039 systems have reliably measured orbital periods.
""

""
For this investigation, out of the 1039 systems, we focus on 750 systems that 
exhibit primary and secondary eclipses. The periods of these 750 systems 
range from 0.9 to 276 days, and these data span a duration of 671 days.
*The requirement for both eclipses to be present comes from the need to be able 
to measure differences in orbital period defined by the primary eclipses PA 
and the secondary eclipses PB*. We find this difference in period to be the 
strongest indicator of a dynamical interaction with a third body, especially 
in cases where the O–C variations are small. Having both primary and secondary 
eclipses is crucial, as otherwise one would not be able to find independent
trends (i.e. a divergence) in the O-C. (It should be noted that for circular
orbits PA − PB = 0, so any selection that relies purely on period differences 
will be biased against finding third bodies if the EB stars are on circular 
orbits.) Thus in the Kepler data there are 750 systems with primary and
secondary eclipses with P ranging from 0.9–276 days and classified as detached
or semi-detached EBs. This defines the sample used to search for transiting 
circumbinary planets.

Of these 750 systems, 134 (18%) exhibited greater than 3σ differences in
primary and secondary orbital periods. Many of these showed large variations 
(tens of minutes to hours) and thus the perturbing body was presumed to be 
stellar in nature. The remaining systems with small timing variations could 
either have stellar-mass companions on distant orbits, or planet-mass companions
in nearby orbits. Fortunately any periodicity in the O–C variations provides
(usually within a factor of 2) the period of the 3rd body. The smallest 
variations with the shortest periods are therefore the most interesting when 
searching for circumbinary planets. However, this is also the regime where
noise, and more seriously, spurious periodicities due to stellar pulsations and
starspots, also affect the O-C curve, hampering the search.

Thus all 750 systems were examined for possible transit or tertiary eclipse
events, not just the 134 most interesting cases. Since the presence of the 
primary and secondary eclipse precluded the use of standard planet-transit 
search algorithms, each light curve was inspected visually for the presence 
of transit events. (Our initial attempt at fitting and removing the eclipses 
and then searching the residuals for transits did not work; there were always 
small remainders after the best-fit model was subtracted that would lead to 
spurious detections.) 

Planet transits-like events were found in four systems: KIC 8572936 (Kepler-34),
KIC 9837578 (Kepler-35), KIC 12644769 (Kepler-16), and KIC 5473556 (KOI-2939).

As described above, the search is neither fully complete nor fully quantifiable, 
and thus precludes a robust estimate on the frequency of circumbinary planets at the
present time. However, a robust lower limit is possible, and is described in detail 
in the following section.
""
